The Joe Rogan.
Experience. What about, uh, psychology? Do you have, uh,
a mental trainer or anybody who's like a sports psychologist?
Well, that's the, the fun thing I started off with, um,
the guy I was telling you about, of, of your Lima he's, uh,
also kickboxing world champion in different different weight divisions.
I was training with him and he took me with his training,
took me to his training and I was working with him in his prime.
And without him knowing he was teaching me so much about
mental training, because he,
I was training with him and he was never giving up and the moment,
and I just showed something like he gave even extra,
even more gas. So when you.
Started slowing down yeah.
And he was even pushing the pace even more.
And that's what I was seeing in his fights. And I was just studying him.
And from that,
I learned so much and I respected him still so much so thankful for that. So,
and he's still my, my mental coach with that. So he's in my corner.
And every time when he says something, I just think about,
I don't want to disappoint this man,
because he knows what's how important this is.
And I think from the start last year or something,
I was really like little bit skeptical about
talking to people like, like a psychologist or something. I was like,
I don't know, talk about personal stuff. You know,
that's pretty deep with somebody you don't know is, I don't know.
Does maybe in my mind just doesn't add up, you know, it doesn't feel good. It,
uh, but still, uh, I got in this situation that I had to, or yeah,
I just, I just had to, and I went there and it actually felt pretty good.
<laugh> so from that moment on, just kept on doing it. Just talk about,
just talk about stuff, you know, it's just, you like,
like no other know what,
how many things happen of what, everything that happens in your life.
And you just gotta process all that stuff.
But sometimes you just so many things happen in your life that you just can't
process and you put 'em.
Away and you talk about it and they're with you in the back of your head.
Exactly.
Yeah, exactly. And then when you just have the time and,
or take the time to talk about that stuff, you just,
it just feels a lot better. It feels like a, like a bag of, of bricks on your,
on your back. You just fall, fall off. Yeah. It feels good. So.
I think of it the same way you were talking about physical therapy that like,
if you have little injuries, nagging injuries, you get a,
it massaged out and everything loosens up. I think of it the same way.
If you're not taking a good account of what's going on in your mind,
you can develop like little mental injuries. Yeah, exactly.
But for me, and maybe a lot of people had maybe not nowadays,
but like from back in the days people still had like,
when you're talking through a psychology, you crazy, you're.
Not right. Right, right.
Yeah. That's what, that's how people in Holland, like yeah.
Approached it well for here for a long time here for fighters,
it was the same thing. Like most fighters didn't need eat a psychologist.
That's not for winners. Winners know how to win. You just don't be a.
You go out there and fight. Yeah. But that's nonsense.
Like you there's no in professional fighting. No. You know,
but there is edge. You can get an edge, you can get an advantage,
whether you get that advantage from getting massage or cryotherapy or,
or from a sports psychologist there's advantages to be had. Yeah.
So, but I think that's what my, uh,
what I got from my dad is just being tough,
being tough and being hard on yourself. Mm. In whatever situation you are in,
just be tough on yourself. And just because that's what he was,
he was tough on his self. I, and so that's what I got from him.
And, but now I just think like, okay,
just do tweak everything up and just get mentally imbalance.
And especially when he passed away, like almost two years ago, it's just,
yeah, it was tough. Was tough. Especially when the,
the relationship we had wasn't like was on and off on and
off. And when it was on, it was like a lot of discussion and it just just hurts.
And then things happen in your life.
And you just try to process everything and give it a,
a certain spot. But it's just hard sometimes.
And you just need somebody outside of your comfort zone to talk about that.
Right. And yeah, that, that really,
that really worked and helped for me. So I'm, I'm very thankful for that.
And just, you know, I think I always, I approach things,
just everything in life happens for a reason, whatever,
positive or negative. And sometimes you, you know,
what happens and why it happened.
And sometimes you probably know it after like a few years,
and maybe you never know it, but in my, my opinion,
everything in life positive or negative happens for a reason.
And you just, yeah, it's on you. How well, whether you.
Put that or doesn't,
you decide that it does that it happens for a reason and you can find benefit
in good or bad things. Then it does happen for a reason.
But you make that distinction that it's going to be for your benefit, that you,
it can help you in the long run.
That's the difference between a person who takes things that
happen adversity in life and eyes that the world is against them. Yeah. Oh,
I'm oh, I can't catch a break.
The world's me over those people wind up becoming losers. Yeah.
Versus someone who says, you know what? We're gonna be fine.
This is gonna make me better. Yeah. It's gonna make me stronger.
This is gonna make me understand. I'm I'm,
even though I'm more vulnerable right now,
this is gonna make me understand myself better.
It's gonna ultimately make me better at everything I do.
If you decide that then they do, then things do happen for a reason. Exactly.
And.
That's, and that's one of the reasons I love watching your podcast,
because that's what you bring.
And especially what I think for people to it,
maybe sometimes struggle with certain things, or like,
just explain in a situation where you think like,
what the did I do to life that constantly ever been just backfires on me?
It's I always think like,
you are responsible for the choices that you make in your life and nobody
else. You're also.
Responsible for how, how you accept or how you focus on your life. Exactly.
How you think about things and how you, how you process it.
You're responsible for it. Yeah.
So, and those, those are things like are so important to me.
And that's why that, and that's what I mean with,
I try to surround myself with people that and boost my flame.
Mm. And just look at my phone and it's like, go through it. Like,
who did I text? Or who did I call? Like, you know,
those people need to boost my flame.
They need to be important in yeah.
One way or the other doesn't doesn't mean that they have to, to, to, uh,
be important in business or in work, or it can be in every,
in love or in family or whatever. It need to be important in some kind of way.
I just need to have positivity around me because I've seen so many
negative things from my family side that it's like,
it doesn't work drains. You, it drains you. And I believe like it's like karma,
if you, you are negative,
you will attract more negative things.
If you're positive or positive things will come your way. Um,
100%, I.
Believe that as well. Do you, um, have, uh,
a visualization plan when you go into a fight?
Like say like this re my out with Barari. Yeah. Do you,
are you gonna sit down and visualize certain scenarios?
Do you tr train your,
your thought process to go over scenarios or to have a game plan in your
mind? The way execute the fight the way you would like to imagine it? Of course.
Of course. I think every fighter does. And before.
This is something you set aside, like, do you meditate,
set aside time to do that? Or you just do that all the time? No, it just.
Just happens.
You're just doing it all the time. Yeah. You're.
In the car, you know, whatever. It just, yeah.
It just happens when you on the treadmill or whatever. It just,
it just happens when you, you think about what's going,
what's going to been in the upcoming months.
You just know that, okay, this is gonna be next level. Okay.
But how are we going to approach this fight? What is going to happen?
What might happen if he does this? I do that. Okay. But this could happen.
And that could happen. And in my mind, before going into the fight,
I fought it already like a thousand times, or maybe even more,
cuz you're thinking about this,
this person and this fight for so long and for like three or four months,
that's, that's a long time. So that happens. And
what, and what, what always feel like what's fun to people to,
to realize is that my confident level during
a period of like three, four months into a fight goes like
up and down, up and down people like,
how is that PO you are the best of what you do.
You're smacking the at everybody in, in, in the, in,
in training and in camp. And how does does that? I don't know,
but that is what happens. I think that happens to everybody.
So you just accept the process, you just accept the process, but it's such,
it's such a frustrating process that when you are, when you are here,
just gotta to get back up there again.
But you know that it's part of the process,
cuz I've been doing this for my whole life. So I know it's part of the process,
but still it's frustrating. So, and that's what, for example,
such a,
a mental coach and a psychologist can help you with to cope with that
at that moment so that you don't stay here.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> you do climb back up again,
but it's it's and then you say where, but where does that come from?
Can come from anywhere, you know, from your body being tired, like,
Hey, why can't I cope with this training?
Or why is this training getting or during sparring,
why did I get get hit five times with the right hand and didn't block
or react, whatever.
So it can come from anywhere and then the monotony of training as well, right?
Yeah. Yeah.